LaserTank Extended Manual

Version 0.0.0 -- Last Updated January 9, 2021

Game Objective

The overall goal of the game is to find and reach the flag for each
level safely.

Preferences Overview

The Preferences consist of ten settings: whether or not sound effects
are enabled, whether or not music is enabled, whether or not animation
is enabled, whether or not to check for updated versions when the Game
is started, whether or not to check for updated beta versions at
start-up, whether or not to operate in One Move at a Time mode, the
action speed of the game, the language for the game\'s text, which of
the available editor layouts to use, and whether to show all objects in
the Editor, even ones not currently applicable to the active view.
Changes made will take effect immediately.

Controls in the Game

Moving Around and Identifying Objects

To move, use the arrow keys -- Up, Down, Left, and Right. You can also
use the mouse -- click where you want to go. Note that you cannot move
diagonally. To change the active tank, press T on the keyboard. This has
no effect if there is only one tank.

Shooting Lasers

To shoot, push the Space bar. A laser will be fired in whichever
direction you are currently facing. Right-clicking with the mouse will
also shoot a laser.

Moving Objects With Lasers

To move an object, shoot at it. If it can be moved and it is able to
move, it will move.

**Shooting Other Types of Ammunition**

To shoot something other than the standard laser, hold down either the
Alt key, the Alt Gr key, or the Control key, then push the Space bar.
The other ammo selected will be fired in whichever direction you are
currently facing, if you have any left. If you are out of ammo, a
message will display indicating this. You can switch between other ammo
types with the *Change Other Ammo\...* command.

**Using Tools**

To use a tool, hold down either the Alt key, the Alt Gr key, or the
Control key, then push the arrow keys. The active tool will be used in
whichever direction you are currently facing, if you have any left. If
you are out of tool uses, a message will display indicating this. You
can switch between tools with the *Change Tool\...* command.

**Deploying Bombs**

To deploy a bomb, hold down either the Alt key, the Alt Gr key, or the
Control key, then push the Return or Enter keys. A bomb will be
deployed, affecting the immediate surroundings, if you have any left. If
you are out of bombs, a message will display indicating this. You can
switch between bomb types with the *Change Bomb\...* command.

Effects of Missiles

Missiles are much stronger than lasers. Missiles will destroy all types
of mirrors outright, destroy Crystal Blocks and their mirror versions
outright, kill Anti Tanks from any direction, and destroy Dead Anti
Tanks. Other objects react to missiles the same way they react to
lasers. Missiles are also a source of heat.

Effects of Stunners

Stunners are much weaker than lasers. Stunners are incapable of moving
objects the same way lasers can. If a stunner hits an Anti Tank, it will
be stunned for your next 10 actions, and unable to shoot at you.
Stunners are also a source of cold.

Effects of Blue Lasers

Blue lasers are very much like normal lasers, except for having the
opposite effect on movable objects and crystal walls. These effects are
also flipped for magnetic objects.

Effects of Disruptors

Disruptors turn otherwise immovable walls into disrupted versions that
can be passed through. The effect lasts for 20 actions after the
disruptor made contact.

Effects of Boosts

Boosts allow moving 2 squares at once, instead of the usual 1. This
makes it possible to move in ways that normally are not possible.

Effects of Magnets

Magnets pull your tank next to the nearest magnetic object. If your path
to said object is blocked by something solid, or there is no magnetic
object in that direction, the magnet will fail, and nothing will happen.

Effects of Bombs

Bombs explode when used, causing breakable objects to break and rotating
objects to rotate.

Effects of Heat Bombs

Heat bombs are a source of heat, so any object that reacts to exposure
to heat will transform accordingly. Ground becomes Lava, for example.

Effects of Ice Bombs

Ice bombs are a source of cold, so any object that reacts to exposure to
cold will transform accordingly. Ground becomes Ice, for example.

Effects of Power Lasers

Power Lasers imbue 5 units of force to anything they hit, are not
stopped by impacts with all types of Barrels and Bricks, and kill
Anti-Tanks from any direction. You can shoot these while under the
influence of a Power Bolt.

Checking Your Score

Your score so far, measured in moves, shots, and others, is displayed
above the play field, below the menu bar. It updates as your score
changes.

Getting Help

To find out what all the Objects do, choose *LTRemix Object Help\...*
from the *Help* menu. This will bring up a window that you can leave
open while playing the game, listing each object and a short description
of how it works.

Materials and Interactions

Objects are each made out of something: Wood, Metal, Plastic, Ice, or
Fire. Objects of differing materials will interact when they collide,
based on what they are made out of: Fire heats Metal; melts Ice; burns
Wood; and does not affect Plastic. Ice freezes Metal, Plastic, and Wood;
and cools off Fire. Metal causes breakable objects to break and rotating
objects to rotate. Plastic and Wood do not initiate any interactions.

General Material Rules

A given Object\'s color is a reliable indicator of what material it is
made out of. Magenta objects are Wooden. Red or Violet objects are Fire.
Cyan objects are Ice. Green objects are Magnetic. Blue objects are
Metal. Gray objects are Stone. Yellow objects are Plastic. The one
exception to these rules is Walls of Bricks, which are red despite being
made out of Plastic.

Multiple Tanks

If there is more than one tank, changing which one is active is done
with the T key (for "Tank).

Time Travel

It is possible to travel in time. To do so, press E (for "Era"), after
finding a Time Warper. Note that changes performed in the past affect
the present and future; changes performed in the present affect the
future too. Time travel may be required to solve some arenas.

Controls in the Editor

Moving Around and Identifying Objects

To change levels, use the *Up One Level *and *Down One Level* items in
the *Editor* menu. Changing floors is accomplished with the analogous
*Up One Floor *and *Down One Floor* commands. To identify an object,
Shift-Click it in the main pane.

Placing Objects

To place an Object, first select one in the right pane. Then, click the
location where you want the Object to go.

Setting Object Properties

To set the properties of an Object, if it has any, hold the Option (or
Alt) key and click the Object in the Main Pane on the left. The Control
key also works, for Linux systems, where Alt cannot be used for this
purpose. For directional objects, this command will cause the object to
rotate. For colored objects, this command will toggle the object\'s
color through all the available choices. For Jump Boxes, this command
will invoke the Jump Box Editor.

Setting Preferences

To set preferences for a Level, select the *Level Preferences...*
command from the Editor menu. There are a variety of options here: Three
types of wrap-around may be turned on or off; and the hint, author and
difficulty for this Level can be defined. The ability to shoot multiple
lasers at once and move while shooting can be toggled on or off as well.

Changing Layers

To change which layer is active, either the *Change Layer* command in
the Editor menu or the Layer Switcher at the bottom of the main Editor
window can be used. To use the Layer Switcher, click the button
corresponding to the layer you want to be the active layer. The
currently active layer is the selected button.
